Large organizations present a whole host of complex
challenges to application and system development.
Let's take a moment to discuss these.
If you work for a small organization with your Kanban team,
in one sense, you have it pretty easy.
You do not have any complex coordination or planning to worry about,
hopefully, and your project is likely on the smaller side.
You have your product owner who continually feeds your backlog with use cases,
tickets, or other work items, and life's pretty good.
If you work for a larger organization with your Kanban team,
you may also have it a bit on the easier side. You may have a larger
than average project and have negotiated with your upstream partner
and your downstream partner as well,
and you clearly know what you'll receive from them into your backlog,
and you clearly know what you'll need to deliver to them.
You may be isolated or shielded from the bigger corporate
complexities and doing your job just fine. So you have your
backlog, you have your value stream ‑ for example,
specify implement and validate ‑ and then you deliver, one
upstream partner and one downstream partner.
Pretty straightforward and typical to all my examples in this course. Well,
until this module.
But if you're in a larger organization with your Kanban team and
part of a large project of many developer teams,
well, you may have multiple upstream partners and multiple downstream partners.
Okay, things are getting complicated now,
and so proceed with caution,
and you will have some other additional challenges as well.
Let's see what they might be.
Here's a sampling of system development challenges in
large or complex organizations. Many requirements needing
to be released at the same time.
This certainly can be complex. Larger team sizes.
The more people,
the more issues you will have with effective communication and
leadership. Significant work happening in parallel, and this might
require a lot of coordination, plus, as earlier mentioned,
must be released at the same time. Integrating large components,
systems, databases, you name it, yet again,
another challenge.
And don't forget about non development tasks, such as
documentation, release management,
the build process, and other process‑oriented activities.
Okay, so you think I'm done with the challenges?
Well, not quite. Here are a few more. In larger organizations,
you will most certainly find development teams using a
variety of methods or approaches to their work,
such as Kanban, of course,
with a continuous stream of delivery. Agile/Scrum, delivering code after
each sprint. Waterfall, with sequential steps and milestones and
typically delivering code only at the end of the project, or maybe very
large chunks of code delivered over milestones that may stretch months.
And certainly, a blend of approaches, sometimes known as
water‑Scrum‑fall or Scrummerfall.
So it sandwiches Scrum methodology between an upfront design
phase and a legacy deployment mechanism, and yes,
I have used this approach too, but when you consult,
you adapt to your customer's wishes.
So certainly I did. And there are certainly other approaches to make software.
Why is this a problem?
I'm glad you asked.
There are many challenges of using multiple
development methods in larger organizations.
Different methods imply different expectations of quality or just
exactly what makes a deliverable. How work is validated and
completed. Are the done rules equal? In Kanban,
we have clear and distinct done rules for each value stream step.
What about other approaches, do they? And will they?
And how does that work if you must integrate your software
modules as well? Development cadence practices. Each of the
methods I've mentioned on the previous slide have different
project cadences. With Waterfall, one big deliverable. Scrum,
maybe deliverable every two weeks. And with Kanban, a
constant stream of deliverables.
All this makes fitting the pieces of this puzzle together
very challenging and creates significant project management
integration challenges as well.
And just when you think you've heard enough of the issues with
building software in larger organizations,
I have a few more. In larger organizations, I think it's prudent
and wise to be aware of the organizational,
political, and planning world around you.
This is a big ask of you,
and it's not easy to do, but if you can be more cognitive of your surroundings,
so to speak,
I think you will be more successful working and coping in larger organizations.
Here are a few more considerations. Strategic planning.
What is the overall goal of this project?
Tactical planning.
Just how are we going to get there?
Business alignment. Is what we are doing in alignment with
the business goals? Tracking progress.
Do we have multiple tracking in project management tools or methods? Might this
be confusing? Project team coordination. Just how do we effectively coordinate
across teams? Multiple sources of budgets. These can directly affect people
resources, third‑party services, and other things that might be needed to be
purchased. Multiple customer domains.
This one can be tough.
This is where you may have competing product owners vying for
influence and control, and maybe even budget.
So what can we do to help mitigate all of this we
talked about in the last few slides? Well let's find out. That's what the rest of this module is all about.